Competitor analytics is important for your marketing objectives.
It helps you understand your competition,
so you can decipher how they're positioned and
where they may have an advantage or disadvantage.
Competitor analytics pulls all the relevant information
on all of your competitors together
so you can see the whole picture not just
snapshots when you focus on one main competitor.
Now, this is important because you don't exist in this market alone.
There is always a competitor.
It might not be a direct competitor,
but somebody is competing for
the same consumer's attention or trying to take money out of their wallet before you can.
When we run a competitive analysis,
we look at how our competitors are behaving and we also figure out why they might be
doing something in response to things
that we change on those campaigns that we're running.
We have to predict what's going to happen with some sense of confidence.
With competitor analytics, we seek to answer a few questions.
Who are our key competitors?
What are their objectives?
What are their strengths and weaknesses?
What are their threats?
What strategies might they be pursuing?
What does their revenue come from and what audience overall do we share?
Every marketer should be running a competitive analysis.
Let's look at how we can evaluate our competitors together.